There's one more key function concept we have yet to discuss which is the return statement.
Returning values from a function we talked about functions that take inputs and then on the diagram
I had.
If we go back a couple of slides I have this arrow indicating output.
But right now our functions aren't returning of value.
They are printing of value out and there's a big difference between the two.
If we take a look at one of the built in methods any of them how about Hello Dot to uppercase.
So the two upper case method when I run that the console prints out hello and we see the text below
but that's only in the console.
It's just being helpful for us to immediately see the return value.
If I paste that in to a file and I run this code refresh that page we see nothing.
This code is run and to uppercase does return a value but it's lost forever.
We're not printing it.
We're not capturing it but we normally do is one of those either print it out.
Most likely though we just put it in a variable concept scream equals Hello Dot to uppercase.
We refresh now scream has a value stored in it.
So this returned an output to uppercase return to value.
We captured it in scream so printing something to the console is entirely different than returning a
value when we're working in the console.
They might seem similar but there still is a significant difference.
If I run that code again Hello Dot to uppercase.
Notice this little arrow I get here.
It's pointing the other direction.
This signifies I'm looking at a return value.
Now if I console dot log the same thing Hello Dot to uppercase it's printed out differently.
This is an actual console dot log.
I don't have the arrow.
This is a return value so return values are extremely useful because we can capture them in a variable.
We could pass them to another function.
Remember that most of the time and applications that we create later on in this course and in the real
world we don't print much to the console.
Any given Web site.
If you open the console maybe there's a line or two that a developer left in there.
Or sometimes if you go to a website like Facebook and we open the console we have a message here.
In this case it's to prevent people from running code or something that is fraudulent or spammy or sketchy.
If someone told you to copy and paste something here to enable a Facebook feature it's a scam.
Probably.
But other than that we're not usually cancelled out logging things unless we're debugging or trying
to test something out.
Most of what we do when we write functions is we return a value and we use that value somehow console
that log is just useful when we're starting out.
We haven't talked about how we manipulate a web page how we change each time out how we display content.
So for now we just show it in the console but when we have a function console about logging something
instead of returning is not a substitute.
If we take a look at this ad function ad X and Y a console that logs x plus y when I call it if I refresh
my page here AD 1 and 2 it prints out the value 3 but if I try and store that in a variable like concept
some equals.
If we look at some it's undefined.
There is no value returned from this function.
It prints something which is better than nothing but it doesn't actually return a value.
There's no output.
So let's change that.
Let's add in returns to our functions.
All we have to do is use the return keyword so return.
And then some value.
We can have an expression.
This will evaluate first and then be returned.
So if we do that ad X and Y return x plus y run my code again ad for com A5 in the console we see 9.
But that's not actually being printed out.
It's just the chrome console showing us the return value.
And if I save that to a variable const total equals ad for come a 5 we look at total it now stores the
value 9.
So we return something from the function which we can capture later which is what I did here.
There are some rules to know about returning.
First of all you can only return one thing from a function.
That doesn't mean you can't have multiple return statements but when you actually return something there
needs to be one value.
So if I wanted to return x and y for some reason instead of the total I could use an array and do X
comma Y or I could do a string where I add X inside and Y inside but I can't return to separate values
so I can collect something in return that need to return one thing.
So I said we could have multiple return statements in a single function.
I'll show you an example of that now.